Version 0.26 (XXX)
==================

The documentation is now hosted on Read The Docs at the following URL:
https://cartopy.readthedocs.io/stable/

Minimum supported versions of dependencies

* Python 3.11
* Matplotlib 3.8
* Numpy 1.26
* Pyproj 3.6


🎉 Features
-----------

* Ruth Comer added the `auto_lim` keyword to the `add_geometries()` and `add_features()`
  methods so that axes extents can get automatically updated when adding new features
  to an axes. (:pull:`2569`)

* Thomas Guymer added ThunderForest tiles as another image tile provider. (:pull:`2575`)


🐛 Bug Fixes
------------

* Greg Lucas fixed an issue with small anti-meridian crossing polygons during projection. (:pull:`2594`)

* Thomas Guymer fixed an issue with potential cache name clashes based on different styles. (:pull:`2603`)

* Raphael Quast fixed a bug with polygons that had no paths to return an empty path
  rather than raising an error. (:pull:`2619`)

* Greg Lucas fixed an issue when projecting a geometry with an empty point. (:pull:`2640`)


📚 Documentation
----------------

* Sadie L. Bartholomew added an example map from The Simpson's. (:pull:`2583`)

* Moritz Schreiber added a copy button to the examples. (:pull:`2592`)

* Ruth Comer switched our documentation hosting to ReadTheDocs. (:pull:`2558`)


🛠️ Maintenance
--------------

* Ruth Comer bumped the minimum required versions of dependencies. (:pull:`2623`)

* Elliott Sales de Andrade fixed the CI installation of dependencies. (:pull:`2626`)

* Josh Cunningham added ARM manylinux wheels to the release process. (:pull:`2628`)


🚫 Deprecations and Removals
----------------------------

N/A
