Version 0.23 (April 10, 2024)
=============================

Cartopy has been relicensed from LGPL-3 to BSD-3-Clause. All contributions
to Cartopy are now under the BSD-3-Clause license.

Python 3.12 and Numpy 2 are now supported and the new minimum supported versions
of dependencies that have been updated are:

* Matplotlib v3.5
* Pyshp v2.3

There are several updates to the geometry and feature handling,
making these more compatible with the Matplotlib semantics.

Features
--------

* Xianxiang Li added the ability to modify the properties of the stock images (:pull:`2230`)

* @lgolston updated the shapefile readers and added documentation. (:pull:`2236`)

* Ruth Comer turned the ``GridLiner`` into a Matplotlib ``Artist`` making it easier to
  add and remove gridlines and fewer internal draws for better performance. (:pull:`2249`, :pull:`2252`)

* The cartopy feature download script (useful for downloading Natural Earth Features
  for offline use) can be invoked within the package directly
  using :code:`python -m cartopy.feature.download`, or through the installed command
  line interface using :code:`cartopy-feature-download`. (:pull:`2263`)

* The Stamen Maps API is no longer available. There is a new class ``StadiaMaps``
  that can be used to access the Stadia Maps API which contains the
  Stamen styled tiles. (:pull:`2269`)

* Greg Lucas made it easier to handle projections on non-earth bodies that
  would error previously. (:pull:`2283`)

* Kevin Dungs added the ability to use Levels 5 and 6 in GSHHS features
  for Antarctica. (:pull:`2317`)

* Ruth Comer changed a single geometry that is split into two across a boundary
  to be drawn as a compound path rather than two independent paths. This makes
  it easier to style the geometry consistently. (:pull:`2325`)

* Ruth Comer has converted the ``FeatureArtist`` into a Matplotlib ``Collection``.
  This makes it easier to set properties on the features and enables arrays to
  be used to style a set of features. (:pull:`2323`)
  A new example demonstrating this has been added to the gallery
  :ref:`sphx_glr_gallery_scalar_data_geometry_data.py`

Deprecations and Removals
-------------------------

* The ``cartopy.mpl.style`` module has been deprecated with no replacement
  and will be removed in a future release. Users should combine and merge styles
  themselves now.
* The **auto_update** keyword argument to ``gridlines`` and ``GridLiner`` is
  deprecated and will be removed in a future release. In the future the gridlines
  will always be updated when the plot is drawn.
* The gridliner labelling options
  ``cartopy.mpl.gridliner.Gridliner.xlabels_top``,
  ``cartopy.mpl.gridliner.Gridliner.xlabels_bottom``,
  ``cartopy.mpl.gridliner.Gridliner.ylabels_left``, and
  ``cartopy.mpl.gridliner.Gridliner.ylabels_right`` have been removed.
  Instead, use :attr:`cartopy.mpl.gridliner.Gridliner.top_labels`,
  :attr:`cartopy.mpl.gridliner.Gridliner.bottom_labels`,
  :attr:`cartopy.mpl.gridliner.Gridliner.left_labels`, or
  :attr:`cartopy.mpl.gridliner.Gridliner.right_labels`.
